[Docs/Shared vs Owned] Reword and provide detailed example (#14551)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/guides/developer/sui-101/shared-owned.mdx

---

Objects on Sui can be shared (accessible for reads and writes by any transaction) or owned (accessible for reads and writes by transactions signed by their owner).  Many applications can be built using a solution that either uses shared objects or only owned objects, with trade-offs for each that need to be weighed.

Transactions that use only owned objects benefit from very low latency to finality, because they do not need to go through consensus.  On the other hand, the fact that only the owner of the the object can access it complicates processes that need to work with objects owned by multiple parties, and access to very hot objects needs to be coordinated off-chain.

Transactions that access one or more shared objects require consensus to sequence reads and written to those objects.  This comes at a slightly higher gas cost and increases latency and transactions that access more shared objects or particularly popular objects may see increases in latency due to contention, but the expressivity of allowing multiple addresses to access the same shared object, and the simplicity of allowing the chain to coordinate access to hot objects are benefits.

> To summarise, applications that are extremely sensitive to latency or gas costs, that do not need to handle complex multi-party transactions, or that already require an off-chain service could benefit from a design that only uses owned objects, while applications that require coordination between multiple parties, may prefer to use shared objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To summarize, applications that are extremely sensitive to latency or gas costs, that do not need to handle complex multi-party transactions, or that already require an off-chain service could benefit from a design that only uses owned objects, while applications that require coordination between multiple parties, may prefer to use shared objects.
```

Reviewer: Don't be afraid of the zeds! ;) American English for consistency.

### `Locked<T>` and `Key`
[Code Sample](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/examples/move/escrow/sources/lock.move)

Both implementations use a primitive for locking values, which offers the following interface:

```rust
module escrow::lock {
    public fun lock<T: store>(obj: T, ctx: &mut TxContext): (Locked<T>, Key);
    public fun unlock<T: store>(locked: Locked<T>, key: Key): T
}
```

Any `T: store` can be locked, to get a `Locked<T>` and a corresponding `Key`, and conversely, the locked value and its corresponding key can be consumed to get back the wrapped object.

The important property that this interface provides is that locked values cannot be modified except by unlocking them first (and later relocking them).  Because unlocking consumes the key, tampering with a locked value can be detected by remembering the ID of the key that it was locked with.  This prevents situations where one party in a swap changes the object they are offering to reduce its value.

> ### Owned Objects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Owned objects
```

[Code Sample](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/examples/move/escrow/sources/owned.move)

> The protocol for swapping via escrow implemented using owned objects starts with both parties locking their respective objects. This will be used to prove that the object has not been tampered with after the swap has been agreed. If either party does not want to proceed at this stage, they simply unlock their object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The protocol for swapping via escrow implemented using owned objects starts with both parties locking their respective objects. This will be used to prove that the object has not been tampered with after the swap has been agreed. If either party does not want to proceed at this stage, they just unlock their object.
```

Reviewer: Nit: Avoid "simple" as its extra frustrating if for some reason it's not simple for you as a user.

        escrowed: escrowed1,
    } = obj1;

    let Escrow {
        id: id2,
        sender: sender2,
        recipient: recipient2,
        exchange_key: exchange_key2,
        escrowed_key: escrowed_key2,
        escrowed: escrowed2,
    } = obj2;

    object::delete(id1);
    object::delete(id2);

    // Make sure the sender and recipient match each other
    assert!(sender1 == recipient2, EMismatchedSenderRecipient);
    assert!(sender2 == recipient1, EMismatchedSenderRecipient);

    // Make sure the objects match each other and haven't been modified
    // (they remain locked).
    assert!(escrowed_key1 == exchange_key2, EMismatchedExchangeObject);
    assert!(escrowed_key2 == exchange_key1, EMismatchedExchangeObject);

    // Do the actual swap
    transfer::public_transfer(escrowed1, recipient1);
    transfer::public_transfer(escrowed2, recipient2);
}
```

The `swap` function checks that senders and recipients match and that each party wants the object that the other party is offering, by comparing their respective key IDs.  If the custodian tried to match together two unrelated escrow requests to swap, the transaction would not succeed.

> ### Shared Objects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Shared objects
```

    let escrow = Escrow {
        id: object::new(ctx),
        sender: tx_context::sender(ctx),
        recipient,
        exchange_key,
        escrowed: option::some(escrowed),
    };

    transfer::public_share_object(escrow);
}
```

This time the swap request is a shared object, and accepts the object being escrowed directly (not locked).  The request remembers the address that sent it (who is allowed to reclaim the object if the swap hasn't already happened), and the intended recipient, who is then expected to continue the swap by providing the object they initially locked:

```rust
public fun swap<T: key + store, U: key + store>(
    escrow: &mut Escrow<T>,
    key: Key,
    locked: Locked<U>,
    ctx: &TxContext,
): T {
    assert!(option::is_some(&escrow.escrowed), EAlreadyExchangedOrReturned);
    assert!(escrow.recipient == tx_context::sender(ctx), EMismatchedSenderRecipient);
    assert!(escrow.exchange_key == object::id(&key), EMismatchedExchangeObject);

    let escrowed1 = option::extract<T>(&mut escrow.escrowed);
    let escrowed2 = lock::unlock(locked, key);

    // Do the actual swap
    transfer::public_transfer(escrowed2, escrow.sender);
    escrowed1
}
```

> Even though the `Escrow` request is a shared object that is accessible by anyone, the Move interface ensures that only the original sender and the intended recipient can successfully interact with it. `swap` checks that locked object matches the object that was requested when the `Escrow` was created (again, by comparing key IDs) and assumes that the intended recipient wants the escrowed object (if they did not, they would not have called `swap`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though the `Escrow` request is a shared object that is accessible by anyone, the Move interface ensures that only the original sender and the intended recipient can successfully interact with it. `swap` checks that the locked object matches the object that was requested when the `Escrow` was created (again, by comparing key IDs) and assumes that the intended recipient wants the escrowed object (if they did not, they would not have called `swap`).
```

Assuming all checks pass, the object held in `Escrow` is extracted and returned to the first party, leaving the shared request object empty (but still existing).  The locked object offered by the first party is also unlocked and sent to the second party, completing the swap.

### Comparison

> We have seen two ways to implement a swap between two objects.  In both cases there is a point at which one party has made a request and the other has not responded.  At this point, both parties may want to access the `Escrow` object: One to cancel the swap, and the other to complete it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic explores two ways to implement a swap between two objects.  In both cases there is a point at which one party has made a request and the other has not responded.  At this point, both parties may want to access the `Escrow` object: One to cancel the swap, and the other to complete it.
```

In one case, the protocol uses only owned objects but requires a custodian to act as an intermediary. This has the advantage of avoiding the costs and latencies of consensus altogether, but involves more steps and requires trusting a third party for liveness.

> In the other case, the object is custodied on chain in a shared object.  This requires consensus, and leaves a shared object on-chain at the end of the swap (consuming gas in the form of irretrievable storage rebate), but involves fewer steps, and no third party.

Author: > leaves a shared object on-chain at the end of the swap.

Hopefully not for long!  cc @tzakian to update this example and the docs once shared object deletion hits the production networks.

> In the other case, the object is custodied on chain in a shared object.  This requires consensus, and leaves a shared object on-chain at the end of the swap (consuming gas in the form of irretrievable storage rebate), but involves fewer steps, and no third party.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the other case, the object is custodied on chain in a shared object.  This requires consensus, and leaves a shared object on chain at the end of the swap (consuming gas in the form of irretrievable storage rebate), but involves fewer steps, and no third party.
```

Reviewer: On-chain is the adjective version in rest of docs.  If you keep, be sure to change the first use in this para to match.
